I was very new to the professional game when I arrived at Metro. Even though I had a degree, a few years of random work experience, and an unusual professional development experience at my residency at the Oakley Art House, I was vastly inexperienced in the world of corporate America. I had no idea how to run a meeting, how to advocate for my area of assignment, or even how to string two sentences together in front of an Executive with 30 years of experience in their field. At the beginning, it was obvious that my boss trusted me even less than I trusted myself (as my ego frequently tried to outshine my skills… to my detriment). I was quickly getting up to speed on the knowledge base of this field so new to me, continuity planning, but I still struggled on my presentation of the topic in meetings. More than once, I felt the stares of powerful people that beamed into my soul 'oh look, another clueless consultant. Who hired this guy?'

I originally resented my boss for pressing me so hard on knowing my material, though I look back now with more appreciation. She HAD to make sure I knew what I was doing and saying before I opened my mouth because she had seen the garbage that poured out when I was on the spot. Over time, however, I was noticing key phrases that my boss used to introduce our meetings, finding a few sentences in the continuity literature that presented the topic clearly, and exploring new ways to explain some of the more technical aspects. That’s where I started writing scripts. I needed to know what to say before saying it. It seems obvious, but I had to really work at it. I had to make presentations that never saw an audience. I had to wander the halls, gesturing madly and reciting lines to make sure the flow felt natural. I had to polish paragraphs and post them at the bottom of my monitor to read off of during virtual meetings. I had to perform some of this for my boss in one on ones to make sure I was on track. It took a lot of time and focused effort. 

When I was in college and diving into jazz standards to hone my technical musician skills, I had a pianist friend who was doing the same. He used to say to me “learn ‘em so you can forget ‘em”. He definitely was taking that maxim from one of the jazz greats, but that philosophy (about scripts instead of standards) is what got me to a place of confidence in meetings and conversations about business continuity. I had to put the work in to polish my phrasing and understanding so I could get to a point where I wasn’t looking at my written material and I could engage in the topic as it interacted with other people with different expertise. I no longer had to ‘try’ to remember certain phrases. Instead, the words flowed easily. I could identify where people were missing understanding and getting off topic, and I could guide them back to the core of the conversation. Through the use of scripts, I had paved my own way to clarity that others could follow.